README.md, before:

# 🏛️ SPECTER Legal Assistant

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![React 18](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-18+-61DAFB.svg)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.100+-009688.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4.4+-47A248.svg)](https://www.mongodb.com/)

> **Comprehensive AI-Powered Legal Assistant for Indian Law**  
> Providing accessible legal information, document analysis, and procedural guidance with 200+ legal topics coverage.

## 🌟 **Features**

### 🤖 **Intelligent Legal Assistant**
- **Natural Language Processing**: Advanced chat interface for legal queries
- **200+ Legal Topics**: Comprehensive coverage of all major Indian law domains
- **Case Law References**: 50+ landmark case citations with legal precedents
- **Step-by-Step Solutions**: Detailed procedures for 12+ common legal issues
- **Multi-Domain Coverage**: Constitutional, Criminal, Civil, Commercial, Labour, Tax, Environmental law

### 📄 **Document Processing**
- **Multi-Format Support**: PDF, DOCX, TXT file analysis
- **Vector Search**: ChromaDB-powered semantic search
- **Document Chunking**: Intelligent text segmentation for better analysis
- **Upload Tracking**: Complete audit trail for document processing

### 🔐 **Security & Authentication**
- **JWT-Based Auth**: Secure token-based authentication
- **Email Verification**: OTP-based email verification system
- **User Management**: Complete user registration and profile management
- **Session Tracking**: Comprehensive user activity monitoring

### 📊 **Monitoring & Analytics**
- **Real-Time Tracing**: Complete system activity logging
- **Performance Metrics**: API response times and usage statistics
- **Admin Dashboard**: System health monitoring and user analytics
- **Error Tracking**: Comprehensive error logging and debugging

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   React Frontend│    │  FastAPI Backend│    │   MongoDB Atlas │
│                 │    │                 │    │                 │
│  • Material-UI  │◄──►│  • 200+ Topics  │◄──►│  • User Data    │
│  • TypeScript   │    │  • Legal Solutions│   │  • Legal Acts   │
│  • Auth System  │    │  • Document AI  │    │  • Audit Logs   │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         │              ┌─────────────────┐              │
         └──────────────►│   ChromaDB      │◄─────────────┘
                        │  Vector Store   │
                        │  • Embeddings   │
                        │  • Semantic     │
                        │    Search       │
                        └─────────────────┘
```

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.8+ 🐍
- Node.js 16+ 📦
- MongoDB (local or Atlas) 🍃
- Git 📝

### **1. Clone Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman.git
cd lawman
```

### **2. Backend Setup**
```bash
cd backend

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings

# Start backend server
python main.py
```

### **3. Frontend Setup**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Set REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:8002

# Start development server
npm start
```

### **4. Access Application**
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8002
- **API Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs

## 📚 **Legal Coverage**

### **🏛️ Constitutional Law (15+ Topics)**
- Fundamental Rights & Duties
- Directive Principles of State Policy
- Emergency Provisions & Constitutional Amendments
- Judicial Review & Separation of Powers

### **⚖️ Criminal Law (25+ Topics)**
- Indian Penal Code (IPC) - Complete coverage
- Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC)
- Evidence Act & Cyber Crimes
- Terrorism, Narcotics & Corruption Laws

### **👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Civil & Family Law (20+ Topics)**
- Contract Law & Tort Law
- Property & Succession Laws
- Marriage, Divorce & Child Custody
- Maintenance & Adoption Laws

### **🏢 Commercial Law (15+ Topics)**
- Company Law & Partnership
- Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code
- Securities Law & Banking Regulation
- Competition Law & Arbitration

### **👷 Labour Law (12+ Topics)**
- Industrial Relations & Wages
- Social Security & Working Conditions
- Employment Rights & Trade Unions
- Maternity Benefits & Sexual Harassment

### **💰 Tax Law (8+ Topics)**
- Income Tax & GST
- Customs & Central Excise
- Service Tax & Tax Procedures

### **🌍 Environmental Law (8+ Topics)**
- Environment Protection Act
- Pollution Control & Forest Conservation
- Wildlife Protection & Green Tribunal

### **🏛️ Administrative Law (10+ Topics)**
- Right to Information (RTI)
- Public Interest Litigation (PIL)
- Ombudsman & Central Vigilance

### **💻 Information Technology (8+ Topics)**
- IT Act 2000 & Data Protection
- Cyber Security & E-commerce Laws

### **🚗 Specialized Areas (30+ Topics)**
- Motor Vehicle Law
- Consumer Protection
- Real Estate (RERA)
- Banking & Finance
- Agricultural Law
- Health & Medical Law
- Media & Entertainment
- Sports Law
- International Law

## 🔧 **API Reference**

### **Authentication**
```http
POST /auth/register
POST /auth/login  
POST /auth/verify-otp
```

### **Legal Services**
```http
POST /chat                 # Legal query processing
POST /legal-solution      # Detailed legal solutions
GET  /legal-topics        # List all available topics
POST /upload              # Document analysis
```

### **Admin & Monitoring**
```http
GET /admin/traces         # System activity logs
GET /admin/stats          # Usage statistics
GET /admin/user-activity/{user_id}  # User analytics
```

## 💡 **Usage Examples**

### **Legal Query**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/chat" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "What are fundamental rights under Indian Constitution?"}'
```

### **Detailed Legal Solution**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/legal-solution" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "bail application procedure"}'
```

### **Document Upload**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/upload" \
  -F "file=@legal_document.pdf"
```

## 📊 **System Statistics**

- **📖 Total Legal Topics**: 213
- **⚖️ Detailed Legal Solutions**: 12 comprehensive procedures
- **📚 Case Law References**: 50+ landmark cases
- **🏛️ Law Domains Covered**: 15+ major areas
- **🔍 Search Capabilities**: Semantic vector search
- **📈 Response Time**: <100ms for FAQ queries
- **🛡️ Security Features**: JWT auth + audit logging

## 🚀 **Deployment**

### **Production Deployment**
- **Frontend**: Deployed on Netlify
- **Backend**: Cloud deployment ready (Railway, Heroku, AWS)
- **Database**: MongoDB Atlas
- **Monitoring**: Built-in tracing and analytics

### **Environment Configuration**
```bash
# Production Backend
MONGODB_URL=mongodb+srv://user:pass@cluster.mongodb.net/
DATABASE_NAME=specter_legal
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your-production-secret

# Production Frontend  
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://your-backend-url.com
```

## 🤝 **Contributing**

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

## 📄 **Legal Disclaimer**

⚠️ **Important**: SPECTER Legal Assistant provides general legal information for educational purposes only. This is **NOT** a substitute for professional legal advice. Users should consult qualified lawyers for specific legal matters and representation.

## 📞 **Support**

- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [Create an Issue](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/issues)
- 💡 **Feature Requests**: [Discussions](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/discussions)
- 📧 **Contact**: [Email Support](mailto:support@specter-legal.com)

## 🗺️ **Roadmap**

- [ ] 🤖 Advanced AI integration with local LLMs
- [ ] 🌐 Multi-language interface (Hindi, Tamil, Bengali)
- [ ] 📱 Mobile application (React Native)
- [ ] 📋 Legal document templates
- [ ] 👩‍⚖️ Lawyer directory integration
- [ ] 🔍 Advanced case law search engine
- [ ] 📊 Legal analytics dashboard
- [ ] 🎯 Specialized domain modules

## 📜 **License**

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

### Copyright Notice

**Copyright © 2025 Shankar M Darur. All Rights Reserved.**

This software and associated documentation files (the "Software") are protected by copyright law. The Software is licensed, not sold. By using this Software, you agree to the terms of the MIT License.

**Permissions:**
- ✅ Commercial use
- ✅ Modification
- ✅ Distribution
- ✅ Private use

**Conditions:**
- 📋 License and copyright notice must be included
- 📝 Attribution to original author required

**Limitations:**
- ❌ No warranty provided
- ❌ Author not liable for damages
- ❌ No trademark rights granted

## 🙏 **Acknowledgments**

- **Indian Legal System** for comprehensive law coverage
- **Open Source Community** for amazing tools and libraries
- **Legal Professionals** for domain expertise and guidance

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!**

**Copyright © 2025 Shankar M Darur | Licensed under MIT License**

[🏠 Homepage](https://shanksd.netlify.app) • [📖 Documentation](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/wiki) • [🐛 Report Bug](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/issues) • [💡 Request Feature](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/discussions)

</div>

### For Developers
1. **Data Ingestion** - Use scripts to process legal documents
2. **Model Training** - Train custom legal models
3. **API Integration** - Integrate with the FastAPI backend
4. **Frontend Customization** - Modify the React interface

## 📧 Contact Lawyer Feature Setup

### Gmail Configuration for Email Service

**Step 1: Enable 2-Factor Authentication**
1. Go to [Google Account Security](https://myaccount.google.com/security)
2. Enable 2-Step Verification if not already enabled
3. Verify your phone number or authenticator app

**Step 2: Generate App Password**
1. In Google Account Security, go to "App passwords"
2. Select "Mail" as the app type
3. Generate a 16-character app password
4. Use this password as `LAWYER_SMTP_PASS` (not your regular Gmail password)

**Step 3: Configure Environment Variables**
```env
# Sender email (your Gmail account)
LAWYER_SMTP_USER=your-gmail@gmail.com

# App password (16-character code from Step 2)
LAWYER_SMTP_PASS=abcd-efgh-ijkl-mnop

# Destination email (where lawyer requests go)
LAWYER_RECEIVER_EMAIL=legal-team@lawfirm.com

# SMTP settings (default for Gmail)
LAWYER_SMTP_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
LAWYER_SMTP_PORT=587
```

**Step 4: Test Email Configuration**
```bash
# Method 1: Use the provided test script
cd backend
python test_email_config.py

# Method 2: Test via API endpoint
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/contact-lawyer" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Test User",
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "phone": "123-456-7890",
    "caseType": "Contract Dispute",
    "description": "Test message for email configuration"
  }'
```

### Email Flow
1. **User submits** contact form on frontend
2. **Backend processes** request via `/contact-lawyer` endpoint
3. **Email sent** from `LAWYER_SMTP_USER` to `LAWYER_RECEIVER_EMAIL`
4. **Lawyer receives** formatted inquiry with user details

### Configuration Files
- **`.env.example`** - Template for environment variables
- **`test_email_config.py`** - Email configuration test script

## 🛠️ Development

### Running in Development Mode

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
python main.py
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app
npm start
```

### Building for Production

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app
npm run build
```

### Data Processing

**Ingest Legal Documents:**
```bash
python scripts/ingest_raw_laws.py
```

**Process Knowledge Base:**
```bash
python scripts/ingest_kb_jsonl.py
```

## 📚 API Documentation

Once the backend is running, visit:
- **Interactive API Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs
- **ReDoc Documentation**: http://localhost:8002/redoc

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, please:
1. Check the documentation
2. Search existing issues
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- OpenAI for GPT models
- FastAPI for the excellent web framework
- React and Material-UI for the frontend
- ChromaDB for vector storage
- All contributors and legal experts who helped with the knowledge base

---

**Built with ❤️ for the legal community**

Commit message:

license: Change to proprietary license (all rights reserved)

README.md, after:

# 🏛️ SPECTER Legal Assistant

[![License: Proprietary](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Proprietary-red.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![React 18](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-18+-61DAFB.svg)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.100+-009688.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)
[![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-4.4+-47A248.svg)](https://www.mongodb.com/)

> **Comprehensive AI-Powered Legal Assistant for Indian Law**  
> Providing accessible legal information, document analysis, and procedural guidance with 200+ legal topics coverage.

## 🌟 **Features**

### 🤖 **Intelligent Legal Assistant**
- **Natural Language Processing**: Advanced chat interface for legal queries
- **200+ Legal Topics**: Comprehensive coverage of all major Indian law domains
- **Case Law References**: 50+ landmark case citations with legal precedents
- **Step-by-Step Solutions**: Detailed procedures for 12+ common legal issues
- **Multi-Domain Coverage**: Constitutional, Criminal, Civil, Commercial, Labour, Tax, Environmental law

### 📄 **Document Processing**
- **Multi-Format Support**: PDF, DOCX, TXT file analysis
- **Vector Search**: ChromaDB-powered semantic search
- **Document Chunking**: Intelligent text segmentation for better analysis
- **Upload Tracking**: Complete audit trail for document processing

### 🔐 **Security & Authentication**
- **JWT-Based Auth**: Secure token-based authentication
- **Email Verification**: OTP-based email verification system
- **User Management**: Complete user registration and profile management
- **Session Tracking**: Comprehensive user activity monitoring

### 📊 **Monitoring & Analytics**
- **Real-Time Tracing**: Complete system activity logging
- **Performance Metrics**: API response times and usage statistics
- **Admin Dashboard**: System health monitoring and user analytics
- **Error Tracking**: Comprehensive error logging and debugging

## 🏗️ **Architecture**

```
┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐    ┌─────────────────┐
│   React Frontend│    │  FastAPI Backend│    │   MongoDB Atlas │
│                 │    │                 │    │                 │
│  • Material-UI  │◄──►│  • 200+ Topics  │◄──►│  • User Data    │
│  • TypeScript   │    │  • Legal Solutions│   │  • Legal Acts   │
│  • Auth System  │    │  • Document AI  │    │  • Audit Logs   │
└─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘    └─────────────────┘
         │                       │                       │
         │              ┌─────────────────┐              │
         └──────────────►│   ChromaDB      │◄─────────────┘
                        │  Vector Store   │
                        │  • Embeddings   │
                        │  • Semantic     │
                        │    Search       │
                        └─────────────────┘
```

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.8+ 🐍
- Node.js 16+ 📦
- MongoDB (local or Atlas) 🍃
- Git 📝

### **1. Clone Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman.git
cd lawman
```

### **2. Backend Setup**
```bash
cd backend

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings

# Start backend server
python main.py
```

### **3. Frontend Setup**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
# Set REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:8002

# Start development server
npm start
```

### **4. Access Application**
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:3000
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8002
- **API Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs

## 📚 **Legal Coverage**

### **🏛️ Constitutional Law (15+ Topics)**
- Fundamental Rights & Duties
- Directive Principles of State Policy
- Emergency Provisions & Constitutional Amendments
- Judicial Review & Separation of Powers

### **⚖️ Criminal Law (25+ Topics)**
- Indian Penal Code (IPC) - Complete coverage
- Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC)
- Evidence Act & Cyber Crimes
- Terrorism, Narcotics & Corruption Laws

### **👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Civil & Family Law (20+ Topics)**
- Contract Law & Tort Law
- Property & Succession Laws
- Marriage, Divorce & Child Custody
- Maintenance & Adoption Laws

### **🏢 Commercial Law (15+ Topics)**
- Company Law & Partnership
- Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code
- Securities Law & Banking Regulation
- Competition Law & Arbitration

### **👷 Labour Law (12+ Topics)**
- Industrial Relations & Wages
- Social Security & Working Conditions
- Employment Rights & Trade Unions
- Maternity Benefits & Sexual Harassment

### **💰 Tax Law (8+ Topics)**
- Income Tax & GST
- Customs & Central Excise
- Service Tax & Tax Procedures

### **🌍 Environmental Law (8+ Topics)**
- Environment Protection Act
- Pollution Control & Forest Conservation
- Wildlife Protection & Green Tribunal

### **🏛️ Administrative Law (10+ Topics)**
- Right to Information (RTI)
- Public Interest Litigation (PIL)
- Ombudsman & Central Vigilance

### **💻 Information Technology (8+ Topics)**
- IT Act 2000 & Data Protection
- Cyber Security & E-commerce Laws

### **🚗 Specialized Areas (30+ Topics)**
- Motor Vehicle Law
- Consumer Protection
- Real Estate (RERA)
- Banking & Finance
- Agricultural Law
- Health & Medical Law
- Media & Entertainment
- Sports Law
- International Law

## 🔧 **API Reference**

### **Authentication**
```http
POST /auth/register
POST /auth/login  
POST /auth/verify-otp
```

### **Legal Services**
```http
POST /chat                 # Legal query processing
POST /legal-solution      # Detailed legal solutions
GET  /legal-topics        # List all available topics
POST /upload              # Document analysis
```

### **Admin & Monitoring**
```http
GET /admin/traces         # System activity logs
GET /admin/stats          # Usage statistics
GET /admin/user-activity/{user_id}  # User analytics
```

## 💡 **Usage Examples**

### **Legal Query**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/chat" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "What are fundamental rights under Indian Constitution?"}'
```

### **Detailed Legal Solution**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/legal-solution" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"message": "bail application procedure"}'
```

### **Document Upload**
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/upload" \
  -F "file=@legal_document.pdf"
```

## 📊 **System Statistics**

- **📖 Total Legal Topics**: 213
- **⚖️ Detailed Legal Solutions**: 12 comprehensive procedures
- **📚 Case Law References**: 50+ landmark cases
- **🏛️ Law Domains Covered**: 15+ major areas
- **🔍 Search Capabilities**: Semantic vector search
- **📈 Response Time**: <100ms for FAQ queries
- **🛡️ Security Features**: JWT auth + audit logging

## 🚀 **Deployment**

### **Production Deployment**
- **Frontend**: Deployed on Netlify
- **Backend**: Cloud deployment ready (Railway, Heroku, AWS)
- **Database**: MongoDB Atlas
- **Monitoring**: Built-in tracing and analytics

### **Environment Configuration**
```bash
# Production Backend
MONGODB_URL=mongodb+srv://user:pass@cluster.mongodb.net/
DATABASE_NAME=specter_legal
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your-production-secret

# Production Frontend  
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://your-backend-url.com
```

## 🤝 **Contributing**

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

## 📄 **Legal Disclaimer**

⚠️ **Important**: SPECTER Legal Assistant provides general legal information for educational purposes only. This is **NOT** a substitute for professional legal advice. Users should consult qualified lawyers for specific legal matters and representation.

## 📞 **Support**

- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [Create an Issue](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/issues)
- 💡 **Feature Requests**: [Discussions](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/discussions)
- 📧 **Contact**: [Email Support](mailto:support@specter-legal.com)

## 🗺️ **Roadmap**

- [ ] 🤖 Advanced AI integration with local LLMs
- [ ] 🌐 Multi-language interface (Hindi, Tamil, Bengali)
- [ ] 📱 Mobile application (React Native)
- [ ] 📋 Legal document templates
- [ ] 👩‍⚖️ Lawyer directory integration
- [ ] 🔍 Advanced case law search engine
- [ ] 📊 Legal analytics dashboard
- [ ] 🎯 Specialized domain modules

## 📜 **License**

This project is **proprietary software** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

### Copyright Notice

**Copyright © 2025 Shankar M Darur. All Rights Reserved.**

This software and associated documentation files (the "Software") are proprietary and confidential. The Software is licensed, not sold.

**You MAY:**
- ✅ View the source code for educational purposes
- ✅ Use for personal, non-commercial learning

**You MAY NOT (without written permission):**
- ❌ Use for commercial purposes
- ❌ Modify or create derivative works
- ❌ Distribute or sell copies
- ❌ Deploy on public servers
- ❌ Remove copyright notices

**Commercial Licensing:**
For commercial use, modification rights, or redistribution, please contact:
📧 shankardarur158@gmail.com

**Disclaimer:**
- ⚠️ No warranty provided
- ⚠️ Author not liable for damages
- ⚠️ Use at your own risk

## 🙏 **Acknowledgments**

- **Indian Legal System** for comprehensive law coverage
- **Open Source Community** for amazing tools and libraries
- **Legal Professionals** for domain expertise and guidance

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!**

**Copyright © 2025 Shankar M Darur | Proprietary Software - All Rights Reserved**

[🏠 Homepage](https://shanksd.netlify.app) • [📧 Contact](mailto:shankardarur158@gmail.com) • [🐛 Report Bug](https://github.com/wrld-of-Shanks/lawman/issues)

</div>

### For Developers
1. **Data Ingestion** - Use scripts to process legal documents
2. **Model Training** - Train custom legal models
3. **API Integration** - Integrate with the FastAPI backend
4. **Frontend Customization** - Modify the React interface

## 📧 Contact Lawyer Feature Setup

### Gmail Configuration for Email Service

**Step 1: Enable 2-Factor Authentication**
1. Go to [Google Account Security](https://myaccount.google.com/security)
2. Enable 2-Step Verification if not already enabled
3. Verify your phone number or authenticator app

**Step 2: Generate App Password**
1. In Google Account Security, go to "App passwords"
2. Select "Mail" as the app type
3. Generate a 16-character app password
4. Use this password as `LAWYER_SMTP_PASS` (not your regular Gmail password)

**Step 3: Configure Environment Variables**
```env
# Sender email (your Gmail account)
LAWYER_SMTP_USER=your-gmail@gmail.com

# App password (16-character code from Step 2)
LAWYER_SMTP_PASS=abcd-efgh-ijkl-mnop

# Destination email (where lawyer requests go)
LAWYER_RECEIVER_EMAIL=legal-team@lawfirm.com

# SMTP settings (default for Gmail)
LAWYER_SMTP_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
LAWYER_SMTP_PORT=587
```

**Step 4: Test Email Configuration**
```bash
# Method 1: Use the provided test script
cd backend
python test_email_config.py

# Method 2: Test via API endpoint
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8002/contact-lawyer" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "name": "Test User",
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "phone": "123-456-7890",
    "caseType": "Contract Dispute",
    "description": "Test message for email configuration"
  }'
```

### Email Flow
1. **User submits** contact form on frontend
2. **Backend processes** request via `/contact-lawyer` endpoint
3. **Email sent** from `LAWYER_SMTP_USER` to `LAWYER_RECEIVER_EMAIL`
4. **Lawyer receives** formatted inquiry with user details

### Configuration Files
- **`.env.example`** - Template for environment variables
- **`test_email_config.py`** - Email configuration test script

## 🛠️ Development

### Running in Development Mode

**Backend:**
```bash
cd backend
python main.py
```

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app
npm start
```

### Building for Production

**Frontend:**
```bash
cd frontend/react_app
npm run build
```

### Data Processing

**Ingest Legal Documents:**
```bash
python scripts/ingest_raw_laws.py
```

**Process Knowledge Base:**
```bash
python scripts/ingest_kb_jsonl.py
```

## 📚 API Documentation

Once the backend is running, visit:
- **Interactive API Docs**: http://localhost:8002/docs
- **ReDoc Documentation**: http://localhost:8002/redoc

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support, please:
1. Check the documentation
2. Search existing issues
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- OpenAI for GPT models
- FastAPI for the excellent web framework
- React and Material-UI for the frontend
- ChromaDB for vector storage
- All contributors and legal experts who helped with the knowledge base

---

**Built with ❤️ for the legal community**
